---
layout: post
title:  "Butter Days: Day 10"
date:   2019-10-25 01:00:00 -0500
categories: butter open-source
---
This is Day 10 of [Butter Days]({% post_url 2019-10-18-butter-days-9 %}), from
Ada's Technical Books and Cafe in Seattle, WA.

Last week I updated the proxy to work with `https` so that requests coming from
my laptop are actually secure.

However, because I don't have certificates set up, clients have to ignore
certificate errors to work with the proxy.  Originally I was thinking I could
ignore this and keep going, but I think I'm going to bite the bullet and deal
with it now.  I'll have to do it eventually, and it'll hopefully save me some
work in trying to figure out how to get all the client libraries to ignore
certificate errors.

See [Day 1 of Butter Days]({% post_url 2019-08-23-butter-days-1 %}) for context
on what I'm ultimately trying to build.

UPDATE: This post is mostly about all the walls I ran into, but in [Butter Days
10.5]({% post_url 2019-10-26-butter-days-10.5 %}) I was actually able to get
something working based on what I learned here.

<hr>
<br>

## Trusting A Certificate

Before I look into controlling what certificates the proxy presents to the
client, I want to make sure I know how get all my client applications to trust
whatever I'm sending them.

[This response](https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/90607) claims that trusting a
certificate can't easily be done system wide and that each application may be
configured in its own way.  For example, `curl` has a `--cacert` option for
this.  Maybe configuring this in the most common SSL libraries (like OpenSSL and
GnuTLS) will save me from having to figure this out all over again with every
single language and tool.

Unfortunately, [this page for
GnuTLS](https://www.gnutls.org/manual/html_node/Verifying-a-certificate-in-the-context-of-TLS-session.html)
and [this response about OpenSSL](https://stackoverflow.com/a/25169323) make it
clear that these libraries expect the user to configure trust settings rather
than being opinionated about trusted cert paths.  That makes sense, but it means
that I'll have to configure this elsewhere, probably in more platform and
language specific ways.

I can see that
[golang](https://forfuncsake.github.io/post/2017/08/trust-extra-ca-cert-in-go-app/),
[python](https://stackoverflow.com/a/37447847) (ironically the link to the docs
in that post failed with an SSL error for me), and
[rust](https://stackoverflow.com/a/43108016) all have ways of trusting custom
CAs, so I unfortunately have lots of options.

One thing looks promising though.  In the [rust
version](https://stackoverflow.com/a/43108016) they use
[`update-ca-certificates`](https://superuser.com/a/719047).  That seems like it
might be the most standard way to do it, at least for Linux.

I think this is probably actually the way.  I searched for
"update-ca-certificates mac" to see if it's cross platform and found [this
gist](https://gist.github.com/epcim/03f66dfa85ad56604c7b8e6df79614e0) which
shows how to trust certs system wide for a number of different platforms.
Thanks random internet user!  That's at least a start, and I can dig into the
docs for each of those commands when I really want to [get serious about
it](https://www.google.com/search?q=update-ca-certificates+mac).

## Generating A Certificate

From a user experience perspective, I want to automatically generate
certificates when my proxy starts, and trust those.  This will mean that each
run of the proxy will have new certificates.

Looks like the rust openssl library has a [builder
struct](https://docs.rs/openssl/0.10.25/openssl/x509/struct.X509Builder.html)
that I can hopefully use without too much trouble.  To use that, I added
`openssl = "0.10"` to my `Cargo.toml`.  The build didn't even have to
re-download anything, so I was probably pulling in that dependency anyway.

I ended up searching for `x509builder` through all of the rust projects in
github advanced search, and ended up right back at the [function that the proxy
library I'm using calls to generate its
certs](https://github.com/nlevitt/monie/blob/af5f657ab4f8e12680f9473f2d2933d3a6c04e04/src/certauth.rs).
Now I just have to figure out how to get them.

Well, unfortunately it looks like this proxy generates [certificates on
demand](https://github.com/nlevitt/monie/blob/af5f657ab4f8e12680f9473f2d2933d3a6c04e04/src/lib.rs#L222)
to pose as whatever domain the client happens to be requesting since it doesn't
know up front what domains it will need to impersonate.  That makes sense, but
I'll definitely have to change that.  I know already that I want to pretend to
be the AWS endpoints.

I may be able to do something kind of obnoxious to avoid doing the work though.
It looks like the library [caches the
certs](https://github.com/nlevitt/monie/blob/af5f657ab4f8e12680f9473f2d2933d3a6c04e04/src/certauth.rs#L67)
it has already generated.  Maybe if I call that function, capture the result,
and then output all that information, the library will return the same
certificate every time that specific domain is requested.  It's worth a try.

Unfortunately, there's no way this will be the full solution, because it
generates a new cert for every full host, and there are [many AWS service
endpoints](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html).  I could
self sign a cert that is valid for [every single
endpoint](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subject_Alternative_Name) or do
something with [wildcards](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wildcard_certificate),
but this is starting to seem wrong.

I think the right way to do this is to generate my own Self Signed Certificate
Authority Certificate, trust it, pass it to the proxy, and have the proxy sign
all its certificates with my custom CA.  Then I can have it successfully pose as
AWS and my clients on my system will trust all the certificates it generates in
the process.

This will require some changes in that proxy library to actually support this.

## Generating A Certificate Authority

All right, so now I'm in the world where I'm trying to create my own self signed
CA.  This is not where I wanted to be, but I'm here, so let's see where it goes.

First, I can see that the
[`X509Builder`](https://docs.rs/openssl/0.10.25/openssl/x509/struct.X509Builder.html)
object that I was using before has no mention of CA certificate.

I know from a random conversation (not satisfying, I know) that CA certificates
are different from normal certificates because you don't want a random
compromised certificate to suddenly give an attacker the ability to suddenly
sign a bunch of other certificates.  [Here's an example from the
RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5280#section-4.2.1.2) of something that must
be in CA certificates specifically.

I'm looking around and I see [this code in the `rcgen`
crate](https://docs.rs/crate/rcgen/0.7.0/source/src/lib.rs) to generate a CA
certificate, but that code looks a bit scary, and doesn't use what I thought was
the main rust openssl library.

I don't really want to use some random library here if I can help it, and
unfortunately I just found [this issue talking about what I assume is the main
rust openssl library not even having the ability to sign certificates using
another certificate](https://github.com/sfackler/rust-openssl/issues/345).  That
might actually kill this.

## Back to Basics

Ultimately, I want to start with something that I know works, and go up from
there.  This situation right now where everything is wide open and I have no
starting point isn't great.

Once I have a working example, then I can start to do fancy stuff, like having
everything auto generated.  Plus, I'll be able to compare what I generate to
something that I know works, using openssl commands that look something like
this:

```
$ echo | openssl s_client -showcerts -servername ec2.us-east-1.amazonaws.com \
    -connect ec2.amazonaws.com:443 2>/dev/null | \
    openssl x509 -inform pem -noout -text
Certificate:
    Data:
        Version: 3 (0x2)
        Serial Number:
            05:25:55:41:4d:3f:5f:80:b1:90:92:d0:e6:98:1a:13
    Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
    ... etc. ...
            X509v3 Subject Alternative Name: 
                DNS:ec2.us-east-1.amazonaws.com, DNS:ec2.amazonaws.com, DNS:us-east-1.ec2.amazonaws.com, DNS:*.ec2.us-east-1.vpce.amazonaws.com
    ... etc. ...
```

I could actually go through the whole process with the `openssl` tool, but I
know from experience that's a huge pain with a lot of magic configuration
options and files everywhere, and I don't wanna.  If I did, [this
post](https://gist.github.com/Soarez/9688998) actually seems like a great
example of how.

Instead, I'm going to see if anyone has created tools I can use that will make
it easier to do this with a sane interface.  I heard about
[mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert) and
[cfssl](https://github.com/cloudflare/cfssl) from friends and previous projects,
so let's try those.  I also found
[pkictl](https://github.com/brianclements/pkictl) which looks like it might be
decent, but it also still looks too openssl.

The mkcert tool looks like it might be a good place to start, because it's meant
to simplify generating development certificates, and it actually automatically
trusts the CA that it generates, which saves me some effort.

## Using mkcert

First, let's follow the
[Quickstart](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert#quickstart):

```
$ go run github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert -install "*.amazonaws.com" "*.us-east-1.amazonaws.com"
Using the local CA at "/home/sverch/.local/share/mkcert" ✨

Created a new certificate valid for the following names 📜
 - "*.amazonaws.com"
 - "*.us-east-1.amazonaws.com"

Reminder: X.509 wildcards only go one level deep, so this won't match a.b.amazonaws.com ℹ️

The certificate is at "./_wildcard.amazonaws.com+1.pem" and the key at "./_wildcard.amazonaws.com+1-key.pem" ✅
```

Note, this required root permissions and asked for my root password the first
time I ran this, but since this code is out in the open I trust that it's
unlikely to be malicious.  Better than [piping to a
shell](https://www.seancassidy.me/dont-pipe-to-your-shell.html).

All right, so we have a certificate already!

```
$ openssl x509 -text -noout -in _wildcard.amazonaws.com+1.pem 
Certificate:
    Data:
        Version: 3 (0x2)
        Serial Number:
            b3:ce:48:f4:08:61:b9:50:11:6f:f8:e2:02:02:fd:42
    Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
        Issuer: O = mkcert development CA, OU = sverch@hawking (Shaun Verch), CN = mkcert sverch@hawking (Shaun Verch)
        Validity
            Not Before: Jun  1 00:00:00 2019 GMT
            Not After : Oct 26 05:29:19 2029 GMT
        Subject: O = mkcert development certificate, OU = sverch@hawking (Shaun Verch)
            ... etc. ...
            X509v3 Subject Alternative Name: 
                DNS:*.amazonaws.com, DNS:*.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
            ... etc. ...
```

Great.  So I have a CA that mkcert installed, and a certificate signed by that
CA.  Now let's try to shove it into the proxy.

## Adding It To The Proxy

It looks like [this is the line of
code](https://github.com/nlevitt/monie/blob/8d736a23b53ee27c6c2dd92537c2ae4b36c6fcd2/src/certauth.rs#L73)
that I would need to change.  Instead of generating a certificate each time, I
could support passing in a certificate.

Unfortunately, that would require changing the library itself and then pulling
that into my proxy, and I've run out of time for today.

## Next Time

Well, this was kind of a mess, but I shouldn't be surprised when digging into
the world of certificates that things get a little crazy.  Here's what I've
learned:

- There are system wide global trust stores that are mostly standard, and will
  probably be good enough.  If I find a misbehaving language or tool, I'm okay
  with dealing with them on a case by case basis.
- At the very least I want to generate a CA to use to sign my certificates,
  because I want to trust that CA rather than have everything be self signed.
- Doing all of this in rust seems like it would be a lot of effort and doesn't
  have the library support yet.
- The `mkcert` tool might get me pretty far in the short term.
- The [proxy library I'm using](https://github.com/nlevitt/monie) will have to
  be modified to support any of this.

Given all that, I think next time I'll try to modify the proxy library to return
the certs generated by mkcert, probably by providing an option to use a cert
file instead of generating its own (then I'm not doing anything mkcert
specific).  Then, I can quickly test to see if `curl` trusts the certs and I
don't have to pass `--insecure` anymore, which will at least prove that part is
hooked up.

At that point I'm free to start actually generating OpenAPI client libraries,
because I have options to make them trust the cert (if they don't already trust
it because of the system store).
